---
title: Setting up re:dash instance
layout: post
category: deployment
permalink: /deployment/setup.html
---

The [provisioning script](https://github.com/EverythingMe/redash/blob/master/setup/bootstrap.sh) works on Ubuntu 12.04, Ubuntu 14.04 and Debian Wheezy. This script installs all needed dependencies and creates basic setup.

To ease the process, there are also images for AWS and Google Compute Cloud. These images created with the same provision script using Packer.

## Create an instance

### Google Compute Engine

First, you need to add the images to your account:

```bash
$ gcloud compute images add redash-062-b887 gs://redash-images/redash.0.6.2.b887.tar.gz
```

Next you need to launch an instance using this image (n1-standard-1 instance type is recommended). If you plan using re:dash with BigQuery, you can use a dedicated image which comes with BigQuery preconfigured (using instance permissions):

```bash
$ gcloud compute images add redash-062-b887-bq gs://redash-images/redash.0.6.2.b887-bq.tar.gz
```

Note that you need to launch this instance with BigQuery access:

```bash
$ gcloud compute instances create <your_instance_name> --image redash-060-b812-bq --scopes storage-ro bigquery
```

(the same can be done from the web interface, just make sure to enable BigQuery access)

Now proceed to ["Setup"](#setup).

### AWS

Launch the instance with from the pre-baked AMI (for small deployments t2.micro should be enough):

* us-east-1: [ami-17c00d7c](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/home?region=us-east-1#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-17c00d7c)
* us-west-1: [ami-17e11153](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/home?region=us-west-1#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-17e11153)
* us-west-2: [ami-7d20214d](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/home?region=us-west-2#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-7d20214d)
* eu-central-1: [ami-1893a805](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/home?region=eu-central-1#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-1893a805)
* eu-west-1: [ami-a88ac9df](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/home?region=eu-west-1#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-a88ac9df)
* sa-east-1: [ami-a9169bb4](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/home?region=sa-east-1#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-a9169bb4)
* ap-northeast-1: [ami-42842842](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/home?region=ap-northeast-1#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-42842842)
* ap-southeast-2: [ami-dd6f2be7](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/home?region=ap-southeast-2#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-dd6f2be7)
* ap-southeast-1: [ami-a6a9a8f4](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/home?region=ap-southeast-1#LaunchInstanceWizard:ami=ami-a6a9a8f4)

Now proceed to ["Setup"](#setup).

### Other

Download the provision script and run it on your machine. Note that:

1. You need to run the script as root.
2. It was tested only on Ubuntu 12.04, Ubuntu 14.04 and Debian Wheezy.

## <a name="setup">Setup</a>

Once you created the instance with either the image or the script, you should have a running
re:dash instance with everything you need to get started. You can even login to it with the user "admin" (password: "admin"). But to make it useful, there are a few more steps that you need to manually do to complete the setup:

First ssh to your instance and change directory to `/opt/redash`. If you're using the GCE image, switch to root (`sudo su`).

### Users & Google Authentication setup

Most of the settings you need to edit are in the `/opt/redash/.env` file.

1. Update the cookie secret (important! otherwise anyone can sign new cookies and impersonate users): change "veryverysecret" in the line: `export REDASH_COOKIE_SECRET=veryverysecret` to something else (you can use `pwgen 32 -1` to generate random string).

2. By default we create an admin user with the password "admin". You need to change the password:
    * `cd /opt/redash/current`
    * `sudo -u redash bin/run ./manage.py users password admin {new password}`

3. If you want to use Google OAuth to authenticate users, you need to create a Google Developers project (see [instructions]({% post_url 2015-02-16-google-developers-project %})) and then add the needed configuration in the `.env` file:

  ```bash
  export REDASH_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID=""
  export REDASH_GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET=""
  export REDASH_GOOGLE_APPS_DOMAIN=""
  ```

  `REDASH_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID` and `REDASH_GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET` are the values you get after registering with Google. `READASH_GOOGLE_APPS_DOMAIN` is used in case you want to limit access to single Google apps domain (_if you leave it empty anyone with a Google account can access your instance_).

4. Restart the web server to apply the configuration changes: `sudo supervisorctl restart redash_server`.

4. Once you have Google OAuth enabled, you can login using your Google Apps account. If you want to grant admin permissions to some users, you can do it with the `users grant_admin` command: `sudo -u redash bin/run ./manage.py users grant_admin {email}`.

5. If you don't use Google OAuth or just need username/password logins, you can create additional users using the CLI (see [documentation]({% post_url 2015-02-19-0-managing-users %})).

### Datasources

To make re:dash truly useful, you need to setup your data sources in it. Currently all data sources management is done with the CLI.

See [documentation]({% post_url 2015-02-19-1-managing-datasources %}) for the different options. Your instance comes ready with dependencies needed to setup PostgreSQL, BigQuery, Redshift, MySQL and MongoDB sources.

Follow issue [#193](https://github.com/EverythingMe/redash/issues/193) to know when UI was implemented to manage data sources.

### How to upgrade?

It's recommended to upgrade once in a while your re:dash instance to benefit from bug fixes and new features. See [here]({% post_url 2015-02-10-upgrade %}) for full upgrade instructions (including Fabric script).

## Notes

* If this is a production setup, you should enforce HTTPS and make sure you set the cookie secret (see [instructions]({% post_url 2015-02-09-ssl %})).
